all right we're recording hello
everybody and welcome to the James core
developers team weekly sync is June 24th
2019 it's almost like a fest camp so
there are people frantically preparing
their stuff and not here because they're
in Barcelona already and doing god knows
what but we're gonna catch up anyway and
what we normally do is we look at the
prepared don't me I've been here for a
while look at the crib pad if you if
you're here but you're naming attendees
list I think you've already done that
that's good
and put your weekly update down if you
haven't already and we will start going
through everybody who's here and we'll
go through what you've done what you're
blocked on and what's up next
just as we can sync up cool so first up
vasco has put in an update down but he
is not here he's been doing he's been
doing presentations and things new PTP
and I confess presentations and Viera
University that's cool and yeah he did a
presentation a Tokyo Jonas we provide a
work ok so he's working on DHT re
providing which is awesome it means that
once we've provided something to do
Sheehan told it that it's there we will
eventually tell the DHT again that it's
that it's still there because it will
eventually just drop off so it's good to
have it we renounced cool so I guess
this was from previous week's final
presentation and APO get the HTV
provider P I was ready for a review I
think I've seen them they're open busted
and draft so hopefully that will be
ready soon and he's been doing for intro
intro test for hybrid pub/sub network
that's cool whew any questions for
master then please get in contact with
him and either via IRC or how else are
we open initially we open a corpus on
the team management records though this
and you can probably comment on that and
ping him if you have any questions next
up is folk BMX what have you been up to
so my update is also a two weeks update
because we didn't meet last week I
haven't done that much in the ipfs part
of things but I've seen that who was
working on part of the bench anchored to
a assembly script and I just wondered
how fast the C version would be if it's
directly compiled and I would read a
blog post just two days before I started
about how to compile C to represent it
without em scripting so I was excited to
just try it out it took longer than
expected because it's not as easy as it
seems but the outcome is that there's no
difference which is good and kind of
expected but still what's the fun
exercise and I learned a lot of things
about pep assembly and then I'm totally
blocked on making the trace IPL D stuff
promise free and only a sink await it's
a pull request on Ellen's iPod Ian's
memory thing yeah to make it as sink
await as finally all the others
dependencies are also sink await once
this is merged I can upgrade everything
and then yeah it will be nice and clean
and next is yeah doing this and also
potentially removing name links from
deck PB what it means is currently there
you can access the so we've been ever
use MIP FS and UX some file it's not how
it's actually stored naturally and the
question is whether we should keep
support for this in IPL D or not
because union service is actually not
using it and it's a performance
bottleneck but I'm checking with the go
em IPL did him to see if they think it's
a good idea to remove it that's all cool
thank you I just figured out what module
it is you can have of mine in in
exchange for bits law I'm happy to take
it
alright good as almost equals size
[Laughter]
there's a little difference there
alright thank you thank you Boca
I have no questions about that I will I
guess I will transfer that module into
IP Odie and then I'm happy to review as
well the portal quest when I get a sec
what's next Doc you're up next would you
like to give us your update yeah so last
week I was at the MS teamwork and so
most this is from the previous week and
so I fixed a couple of pinning bugs in
Ikea this so I've been looking through
the code quite a bit too to work on the
jeaious pinning stuff and create an
issue about blocks so so we have this
issue where we're sharing on bit swap
some stuff that should really just be
internal the painting stuff and this has
a pretty severe performance degradation
effects when we're when we're doing
anything really bit but particularly on
some DHT tests so um so yeah we should
be able to improve the performance of
basically everything if we can we can
figure out how to do that so I've
written up an issue about it I'd like to
get some people's feedback so then yeah
so now I'm working on improving painting
performance it's pretty complicated
there's a lot of things to think about
because it affects nodejs the browser
you know works differently and you know
there's some trade-offs there between
whether we're gonna cash it up in memory
whether we cashed up one disk so I think
I'm going to write up an issue about the
various trade-offs and ask people for
feedback before continuing with that and
you're the last thing is I as you guys
know now I'm taking over as lead
maintainer further bit swap
implementation and I know that in go
lands they've been adding some things to
bit swap leg sessions so I don't know
like how that all like how this fits in
with kind of JavaScript priorities but I
just wanted to sort of check in on there
there's a road map yeah I think there
was a section of team week that you
missed out on that was a whole bunch of
things to do with like all restructuring
and reprioritizing and that will have to
bring you up to speed on and it will
eventually make it out will be
communicated out to the public
pretty soon I think camp will take
precedence an out but and yeah in terms
of your priorities and things I just
yeah just be aware that that's that's
kind of happening and everything's kind
of up in the air in the moment okay yeah
thanks
otherwise the issue we're talking about
about this weapon that being provided to
DHT that sounds like disgust for your
professionalism yeah you know there's an
issue there so the magico a.m. yeah a
couple of comments and then I just
wanted to you know run about you guys
and see if that's if if we have time
because it's yeah well let's let Jacob
go first and I can quickly share an
update and now we can review back to it
if that's good okay if is there any
other questions to dirt before we move
on
okay Jacob is up what's going on yeah
this will be quick so I was out most of
last week working on ipfs camp stuff do
more of that this week and good ipfs
camp and then I created a PR for the
delegate routing support in JSF EFS adds
in the configuration for that got some
combats back from Dirk so we'll probably
move the addresses for the delegate
nodes into the config so that we can
update those and make that configurable
for people and I'm going to Michael sent
over the instructions for getting
through being able to run their own
service and go so I'm going to test
those against local install at some
point this week and then get those
updated in the modules so that we can
make sure that people are able to run
their own services and not everybody's
depending on the preload nodes so we
don't take them down that is it for me
any questions
I guess I have a question about the
implementation and thanks for sending a
PR I'm just wondering if because they
are currently shared on the preload
nodes and not split out interrupts their
own as their own service we've got two
basically two different services running
on the same machines and if one should
get really busy then it takes down both
of them and that's really bad for like
if everyone starts using the delegate
routing and that causes them to fall
over there's no backup which is the like
thing you know the pre-loading
stuff that's this rape that's already
there and I'm just wondering if we don't
I haven't had a chance to look at the
PRS to be honest but and so is it is it
basically configured by default to use
um content rating or yeah so if you
it'll enable content and pure routing by
default it'll turn those on so if you do
any find peers or anything like that if
you have a DHT enabled it will attempt
to run through your DHT first if it
fails to find what it's looking for then
it will reach out to the delegated
routing okay so but because we don't
have the DHT enabled by default that's
by default as people eat it's gonna
cause problems yeah I think having our
own service having individual services
running would be helpful I think also
encouraging people to run their own for
the infrastructure but obviously that is
gonna be dependent for not everybody's
gonna be able to do that yeah okay so
what so I'm thinking this would go out
before before camp I just don't want
like everyone in the world to start
using that and for the experience at
Camp not to be really good but what we
could do instead is to just inform
people how to set their art and have it
you know ready to go and then if you
want to use it in their workshops that
can then they can configure it yeah
I'm Glen we only then we potentially
only we have a like far fewer another
people using that and so it might be
less likely to fall over
do we want to throw it behind like an
experimental Agri something for right
now
or just make it configurable is it well
yeah that's I guess that's my question
is it can it be configurable yeah so we
could actually just have it go through
and if you have we could have it so that
if you actually have what we're talking
about doing is adding delegated so in
your config you'd have addresses
delegates and if you have any in there
then we can just have it run it if you
don't put any in there then we won't
have it run so people will just have to
go in and pop the preload multi adders
in there yeah we could do that I think
well I don't know I'm interested in your
opinion but that sounds like a good idea
for a camp and until they get separated
out into two like the prelate nodes and
the delegated reading notes yeah I think
really yeah not having those turned on
by default not having everything turn on
but fall is good and then having then it
was just configurable like here or a
list of resources we recommend you spin
up your own but if you absolutely must
here are some that we have yeah just
note that support is going to be
degrading if the whole world is trying
to use them yeah exactly
and I just I just want to make people
are using them in their workshops and
that's that's rad but there's you know
it's much restricted numbers of people
using it yeah and won't the advantage to
if I can get the just some clear
instructions on getting the go one then
if people need to run their own
delegated routing notes for the workshop
then they'll be able to do that with go
yeah yeah exactly
yes that would be rad okay it seems like
a lot of the time we we specify posts
directly like you know most one host to
host three I don't I don't know if I
know enough about load balancing but
it's impossible to just give a DNS
address and it'll like the DNS will like
load balance for us and it'll choose
like you know round-robin or whatever so
that we don't have to specify the exact
number of posts because that way we can
kind of scale it up and down the biggest
thing would be
dealing with knowing who you're
contacting and routing that because a
lot of times you'd have to have if the
biggest challenge I think that that is
having continuity in the peer that
you're dialing so if you hit a load
balancer either that is a sharded peer
which I don't think we have support for
right now or it's somehow able to
determine like okay you coming here this
is a specific period Eiling because when
we dial out we expect that we're dialing
a specific peer and if we hit the load
balancer and get a different peer we're
gonna shut down right I said you're
saying because it has a specific ID
right
okay got it make sense yeah yeah ideally
being able to sharp ears behind load
balancers would be super nice yeah I
feel like the prehnite stuff it when you
add or catch something from my PFS it
will send like an API request to it
sends it to the first one at the moment
but there's a peer open to just
round-robin them but it's just a HTTP
API request to to those preload nodes
and that that in itself could be like it
could be DNS or or load balance to any
number of peers but we would still have
to specify every peer in the list of
peer in list of in the bootstrap nodes
as well to connecting because they we
actually have to be connected to each
one of those peers to start receiving
their content over the bits well
you
cool eh so
that was Jacob any other questions for
Jacob all right sweet answer okay I'm
next one week hopefully pretty quick as
well last week was teen week which was
amazing so much so much content so many
things learn and like I said some
reprioritizing restructuring and things
and towards the end of the week which
will which will all kind of come to the
forefront I think after the camp is out
the way but now it is it is like
finishing our final prep for the camp
there's still a whole bunch of things to
do and like we want to get a chance of
the best release out the door because
there are camp courses that depend on
the new release add some refresher so I
needed to get that done the big things
there were there's my pianist so named
resolve with DNS - DNS hoping those
things and and then there was the
delegated routing which is now kind of
also in the program in the pipe should
be hopefully really really soon which
we've already talked about and then the
third thing was the kind of DHT and
whether or not that should go in and I
was slightly considering this morning
whether we should just add it in and set
it to the EDS to client mode by default
but not not full mode but yeah I
slightly held back on the whole getting
the DHT really considering the issues
and problems that we've been having with
the gateway and the degraded performance
and it doesn't feel like the right time
to be introducing a new DHT
implementation even if I was a hundred
percent confident it is completely right
so I'm thinking let's not let's not do
it for camp
we'll have delegated routing which will
be hopefully almost as good and let's
get it in the next release instead
concern because there are fires that are
still
still there and I wouldn't want to
aggravate them in any way so yeah that's
my current thinking I have to finish off
my core course a it's nearly done slides
a good and well they're taking a long
time because I'm handcrafting them but
then they've done and then the I'm the
DRI for the deep dive so they are they
are also almost all ready to go on track
relatively cool and I think any
questions
all right cool there is no cross team
updates there are some people away
I said Wesker is still away next two
weeks
okay you look back again sorry welcome
back again and Turk is away okay that's
okay let's get some 80 all right um cool
should we've got you've probably got
five just ten minutes left
would you let's talk about the bits work
yeah let's do it
so maybe everyone can take two minutes
just to read the issue that I've linked
to from my notes yeah yeah we had the
same problem when when pre-loading was
first well I had the same problem
include any was first first added and
then like I realized that there was a
whole load of things that we didn't
actually want to be on the Gateway that
sort of preload notes that are internal
to your notes so it just meant that that
option got propagated in quite a few
places yeah so um so that's one where we
go we could also do the same thing so
basically the issue is that we don't
want to provide blocks that are used
internally we don't want to provide them
to bits one and so one way would be to
kind of pass an option wherever we're
we're doing that another way would be to
create like a special instance of like
LD and especially a flying version of
the tag component and and then in the
peano we just used that offline day
component so that it knows that it
doesn't send you any of that stuff out
to the network so that's kind of a
question I guess is whether whether that
solution makes sense you guys
you
that sounds pretty sensible to me yeah
back I just had some concerns about like
it just felt a little weird to him to be
like creating two versions of stuff one
item on online it's how they do it in
the girl code but yeah if you guys are
okay with that I think I'll just go
ahead and make a PR and I think it also
sounds good in the perspective of the
future of IP LD so just em so the plan
is that I know if it's the next version
or the version after even is that really
IPL d is not really responsible for how
things are stored so it's rather you
pass in some foot function and some CAD
function and then it would totally make
sense to have basically two instances
because the the april IPL d won't too
much io its would rather you pass in the
functions you want to use and then it
totally makes sense to have one using
bits four and one using just local
things or yeah so therefore it for the
vehicles yeah that's what I was thinking
that it like IPL D doesn't need to know
about the internals right so probably we
should just keep it in an external place
what kind of overhead would you get with
having an and another instance of IP
okay what is what does it mean like is
it just a bit more memory because
there's another instance so is there
some like is it yeah I mean it'd be
pretty negligible
I think yeah I also wouldn't expect much
much really expected to be a resource
intensive I think it's I guess we'll see
okay I guess we'll see but I don't
expect any any major problems so one
thing that does come to mind is IP OD
formats and lazy loading them if we
create another instance is it going to
have to lazy load again probably right
yeah probably M but it's for the for the
internal stuff we don't really
it's support so so what does internal
mean so that's internal me interest for
like M keeping trade of things because
then it probably will be seaboard anyway
alright defo no no types anyway right
yeah they were probably just to create
this instance with just aesthetically or
like statically loaded seaboard and you
will be good yeah yeah I'll make sure
when I do the PR I'll check you know
check what happens internally make sure
it's not not necessarily loading stuff I
think the IP ID like with the volcker
you're saying about it just taking a get
in it getting a set and I think like the
block service you give it it only uses
getting set already but I'm pretty sure
I've passed like a mock block service to
it that just just has I get an asset but
I doesn't that's not a big change to
what's already happening yes correct yet
but but but there's still this rear like
this this dependency between egg block
service bit swab and IPS repost so I
kind of like yeah historically grown end
I think super ugly but as home yeah but
this will hopefully go away in the
future cool okay I think that's I guess
mean enough to go on I'll make a PR and
I'll I'll send you guys this reviews
yeah does it have any repercussions for
like locking and and stuff if we're
using a separate well question
I'll I'll make sure to take that into
account but I think the pinning step end
zone locking anyway so it it should be
okay I mean so like on the face of it it
sounds it sounds reasonable
it's just the I I guess I just want to
know what the where the potential
problems could be like what you know is
it gonna use up 10 times memory is it
going to cause problems like we just
discussed
yeah yeah I guess you get in there and
get your hands dirty and see how and see
how it goes that's good okay sweet is
there anything else you don't want to
say I'll talk about my shall we shall we
call it a day
next time I see Jacob it will be the
opiate that's yes eventually all of the
viewers alright well have fun all all of
you people and until next week have a
nice have a nice time and happy i
confessing